## 2018-assignment

The Tropical Rainforest Trust website was built mainly using HTML5 and CSS. The website ensured to address accessibility compliance issues in addition to being mobile friendly, supporting many types of users. The web is popularly used by many diverse groups of people worldwide. Known as users, the web is expected to work for everyone regardless of hardware, software, physical ability, language or geographical location. Ensuring that the Tropical Rainforest Trust website as accessible was therefore crucial to it’s validity.
Accessibility ensures that the site is developed to facilitate use by persons with disabilities, allowing them to easily navigate, and understand the site. The Tropical Rainforest Trust website was built including accessibility elements such as alt tags on images which provides text for users who are unable to see images, or use screen readers. To allow headings, subheadings and other content to be distinguished from one another, the strong tag was used for text needing emphasis. Using CSS to describe the presentation of web pages also facilitated adjustment to accessibility as it allowed for the definition of page elements and layout according to device.
The navigation bar, and image gallery for example were presented using CSS, defining different styles according to the user’s device or screen size. The HTML and CSS were also maintained in separate files to encourage tailoring page designs easily. Media queries were used in CSS to style mobile pages.
The use of various types of multimedia file formats can be useful to a website as it also facilitates diversification in devices, browsers etc. It also allows a user to interact in several ways with the website. However, while it facilitates diverse use, it can be difficult getting different media to display well on all browsers and devices. Differing media will adjust differently to the same settings, including scaling, resolution and loading time.
Since the web is often accessed by many people globally, the use of several types of multimedia elements on the Tropical Rainforest Trust website was helpful, in that it can encourage users to stay engaged with the site content, while media such as video, can assist users with reading disability, and images can assist the hearing impaired. However, the issue of device and browser compatibility is always a concern when dealing with media elements, as some browsers may be unable to play certain video and audio formats.
While the Tropical Rainforest Trust website utilized many accessibility tools, improvements can also be made in some areas. Further native optimization of element styles to facilitate different browsers such as using the -webkit or -moz prefix on CSS selectors for chrome/safari or firefox respectively. Additionally, more media elements can be integrated into the site, to further encourage user engagement.